localhost>in databasee=>root>passwrd(Mys....)
1. Predictive Maintenance Analytics Dashboard: Equipment Health & Failure Insights
Clearly conveys the use of analytics and dashboards for predictive maintenance

in tns query editor tell any column new to kae or rem duplcates measers ht hepl to vis wt u teel that i do ok
in tns query editor tell any column new to kae or rem duplcates measers ht hepl to vis wt u teel that i do ok

Answer

Videos

Sources
9
Here’s what you can do in Power BI’s Query Editor to prepare your data for better visualization as a beginner:

1. Remove Duplicate Rows
Why?
Duplicate entries can distort your analysis and visuals.

How to do it:

In Power Query Editor, select the column(s) you want to check for duplicates (for example, UDI if it’s a unique ID, or a combination like Product ID and Type).

Go to the Home tab.

Click Remove Rows > Remove Duplicates.

2. Add a Useful Custom Column
Why?
A new column can help you create more insightful visuals.
For example, you can create a column that flags "High Tool Wear" if the Tool wear value is above a certain threshold.

How to do it:

Go to the Add Column tab.

Click Custom Column.

Give it a name, like High Tool Wear.

Use a formula such as:

text
if [Tool wear] > 200 then "High" else "Normal"
Click OK.

This new column can be used to filter or color charts by wear level.

3. (Optional) Clean Column Names
Why?
Clean, simple column names make building visuals easier.

How to do it:

Double-click any column name to rename it (e.g., change Tool wear to ToolWear, Process te to ProcessTemp).

4. Apply Changes
When done, click Close & Apply to load your cleaned and enhanced data into Power BI.

Summary Table
Task	Why Do It?	How To Do It
Remove duplicates	Avoid double-counting	Home > Remove Rows > Remove Duplicates
Add custom column	Enable better visuals	Add Column > Custom Column
Clean column names	Easier chart building	Double-click column name to rename
Try these steps in Query Editor. If you want a specific formula or have a column in mind, tell me and I’ll give you the exact formula or steps!

done close and aply next
done close and aply next

Answer
Fantastic! You’ve finished data cleaning and hit Close & Apply. Now your data is loaded into Power BI and you’re ready to create your first visualizations.

What To Do Next: Build Your First Power BI Dashboard
1. Go to the Report View
Click the Report icon (the first icon on the left, looks like a chart).

2. Create Your First Visual
A. Bar Chart: Failure Type Counts
In the Visualizations pane, click the Stacked Bar Chart icon.

Drag Failure Type to the Y-Axis (or Axis field).

Drag UDI (or any field) to the Values field (it will default to Count).

This shows the number of each failure type.

B. Column Chart: Average Tool Wear by Type
Click the Clustered Column Chart icon.

Drag Type to the Axis.

Drag Tool wear to Values (it will default to Sum; click the drop-down and select Average).

C. Card: Total Number of Records
Click the Card visual.

Drag UDI to Values (it will show the count).

D. Slicer: Filter by Product Type
Click the Slicer visual.

Drag Type to the slicer.

Now you can filter all visuals on the page by product type.

3. Arrange and Format Your Dashboard
Drag and resize visuals to organize your dashboard.

Click on visuals to format (change colors, labels, etc.) using the Format pane (paint roller icon).

4. Save Your Power BI File
Go to File > Save As and save your dashboard.

Summary Table
Visual Type	Fields to Use	What It Shows
Bar Chart	Failure Type, Count of UDI	Failure types distribution
Column Chart	Type, Average Tool wear	Avg. tool wear by product type
Card	Count of UDI	Total records
Slicer	Type	Filter by product type
You can now explore more visuals, combine filters, and create an interactive dashboard!
If you want to create a specific chart or need help with formatting, just tell me what you want to see next!

2. Create Your First Visual
A. Bar Chart: Failure Type Counts
In the Visualizations pane, click the Stacked Bar Chart icon.

Drag Failure Type to the Y-Axis (or Axis field).

Drag UDI (or any field) to the Values field (it will default to Count).

This shows the number of each failure type.

B. Column Chart: Average Tool Wear by Type
Click the Clustered Column Chart icon.

Drag Type to the Axis.

Drag Tool wear to Values (it will default to Sum; click the drop-down and select Average).

C. Card: Total Number of Records
Click the Card visual.

Drag UDI to Values (it will show the count).
give more like this anotherr 3 cards and more
Show more
2. Create Your First Visual A. Bar Chart: Failure Type Counts In the Visualizations pane, click the Stacked Bar Chart icon. Drag Failure Type to the Y-Axis (or Axis field). Drag UDI (or any field) to the Values field (it will default to Count). This shows the number of each failure type. B. Column Chart: Average Tool Wear by Type Click the Clustered Column Chart icon. Drag Type to the Axis. Drag Tool wear to Values (it will default to Sum; click the drop-down and select Average). C. Card: Total Number of Records Click the Card visual. Drag UDI to Values (it will show the count). give more like this anotherr 3 cards and more

Answer
Absolutely! Here are three more useful cards and additional visuals you can add to your Power BI dashboard for deeper insights from your predictive maintenance dataset:

More Card Visuals
D. Card: Average Tool Wear
Click the Card visual.

Drag Tool wear to Values.

Click the drop-down arrow on the field in Values and select Average.

This card will show the average tool wear across all records.

E. Card: Maximum Process Temperature
Click the Card visual.

Drag Process te to Values.

Click the drop-down arrow and select Maximum.

This card will display the highest process temperature recorded.

F. Card: Number of Failures
Click the Card visual.

Drag Target to Values.

Click the drop-down arrow and select Sum (assuming Target is 1 for failure, 0 for no failure).

This card will show the total number of failure events.

More Visuals for Your Dashboard
G. Pie Chart: Failure Type Distribution
Click the Pie Chart visual.

Drag Failure Type to Legend.

Drag UDI (or any field) to Values (Count).

This shows the percentage breakdown of each failure type.

H. Line Chart: Average Air Temperature by Product Type
Click the Line Chart visual.

Drag Type to Axis.

Drag Air temper to Values.

Click the drop-down arrow and select Average.

This visualizes the average air temperature for each product type.

I. Table: Detailed Data View
Click the Table visual.

Drag fields like Product ID, Type, Air temper, Process te, Rotational, Tool wear, Failure Type to the table.

This gives a detailed, filterable view of your data.

Summary Table of Suggested Visuals
Visual Type	Fields to Use	What It Shows
Card	Average of Tool wear	Avg. tool wear overall
Card	Maximum of Process te	Max process temperature
Card	Sum of Target	Total number of failures
Pie Chart	Failure Type, Count of UDI	Failure type distribution
Line Chart	Type, Avg of Air temper	Avg air temp by product type
Table	Product ID, Type, Air temper, ...	Detailed data view
Try adding these cards and visuals to your dashboard! If you want more advanced ideas (like trend over time, correlation plots, or custom KPIs), just ask!

Try adding these cards and visuals to your dashboard! If you want more advanced ideas (like trend over time, correlation plots, or custom KPIs), just ask! ok do
Try adding these cards and visuals to your dashboard! If you want more advanced ideas (like trend over time, correlation plots, or custom KPIs), just ask! ok do

Answer
Perfect! Let’s take your Power BI dashboard to the next level with some advanced and insightful visuals. Here are three powerful ideas, with step-by-step instructions for each:

1. Trend Over Time: Failures by UDI (Record Number as a Proxy for Time)
If you don’t have a timestamp, you can use UDI (which increases with each record) as a proxy for time.

How to do it:

Click the Line Chart visual.

Drag UDI to the Axis.

Drag Target to Values (set aggregation to Sum).

This will show how failures (where Target = 1) are distributed across your dataset, simulating a time trend.

2. Correlation Plot: Tool Wear vs. Process Temperature
This helps you see if higher tool wear is associated with higher process temperatures.

How to do it:

Click the Scatter Chart visual.

Drag Tool wear to the X-Axis.

Drag Process te to the Y-Axis.

Drag Type to Legend (to color by product type).

Optionally, drag Failure Type to Details or Play Axis to animate or filter.

3. Custom KPI: Failure Rate by Product Type
This shows which product type has the highest failure rate.

How to do it:

Click the Clustered Column Chart visual.

Drag Type to the Axis.

Drag Target to Values (set aggregation to Average).

Since Target is 1 for failure and 0 for no failure, the average gives you the failure rate!

Format the Y-axis as a percentage for better readability.

Bonus: Conditional Formatting in Table
Highlight high tool wear or high temperature in your data table.

How to do it:

Click your Table visual.

Click on the drop-down arrow next to Tool wear or Process te in the Values field well.

Choose Conditional formatting > Background color.

Set rules to highlight high values in red, low in green, etc.

Summary Table
Visual Type	Fields to Use	What It Shows
Line Chart	UDI, Sum of Target	Failure trend over time
Scatter Chart	Tool wear (X), Process te (Y), Type (Legend)	Correlation between tool wear & temp
Column Chart (KPI)	Type (Axis), Avg of Target (Values)	Failure rate by product type
Table (formatted)	Tool wear, Process te (conditional formatting)	Highlights high-risk records
Try adding these advanced visuals to your dashboard!
If you want even more ideas-like Pareto charts, heatmaps, or predictive analytics-just ask!
If you get stuck on any step, let me know and I’ll guide you.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

About data,comp,working


Certainly! Let’s explain your dataset by thinking of the vacuum chamber as the product being manufactured, tested, and monitored. Here’s how your columns and data relate to a real-world vacuum chamber scenario:

What is a Vacuum Chamber?
A vacuum chamber is an enclosed space from which air and other gases are removed by a vacuum pump, creating a low-pressure environment. These chambers are used in industries like semiconductor manufacturing, scientific research, and materials processing, where controlling contamination and atmospheric conditions is critical.

How Does the Dataset Relate to a Vacuum Chamber?
Each row in your dataset represents a single vacuum chamber unit (or a process cycle for a chamber), with various operational and quality parameters recorded during its manufacturing or testing process.

Columns Explained in the Context of a Vacuum Chamber
Column Name	What it Means for a Vacuum Chamber
UDI	Unique identifier for each chamber or test cycle.
Product ID	Serial number or batch code for the vacuum chamber.
Type	Chamber model or size (e.g., M = Medium, L = Large, H = High capacity, etc.).
Air temperature [K]	Ambient air temperature during chamber operation or testing.
Process temperature [K]	Internal temperature of the chamber during operation, bakeout, or testing.
Rotational speed [rpm]	If the chamber has rotating parts (like a turntable for coating or testing), this is their speed.
Torque [Nm]	Mechanical torque measured on rotating components or during assembly/testing.
Tool wear [min]	Time (in minutes) the manufacturing or test tool has been used-important for maintenance and quality control.
Target	0 = No failure, 1 = Failure (whether the chamber passed or failed quality/testing).
Failure Type	Specific reason for failure (e.g., leak, weld defect, contamination) or "No Failure" if chamber passed.
How Does a Vacuum Chamber Work?
Vacuum Creation:
Pumps remove air to create a low-pressure environment, essential for processes like drying, coating, or semiconductor fabrication.

Thermal Processes:
Chambers are often heated (bakeout) to drive out contaminants and moisture, ensuring a clean environment for sensitive operations.

Precision Manufacturing:
Chambers are made from materials like stainless steel or aluminum, with tight tolerances and high-quality welding to ensure leak-free operation.

Testing and Quality Control:
Each chamber undergoes rigorous testing (pressure, leak checks, dimensional inspection) to ensure it meets the required standards.

Example: What Your Data Describes
Suppose your company manufactures vacuum chambers for semiconductor processing. Each chamber is assigned a Product ID and Type (size/model). During production or testing:

Temperatures are monitored to ensure the chamber can withstand operational and bakeout conditions.

Rotational speed and torque might be measured if the chamber includes moving parts (like a wafer stage).

Tool wear tracks how long assembly or test tools have been used, helping schedule maintenance and avoid defects.

Target and Failure Type record whether the chamber passed all tests or, if not, what kind of failure occurred (e.g., a leak, weld issue, or contamination).

Why Track These Parameters?
Quality Assurance:
Ensures each vacuum chamber meets strict industry standards for leak-tightness, temperature resistance, and mechanical integrity.

Predictive Maintenance:
Monitoring tool wear and process variables helps prevent failures and schedule maintenance efficiently.

Process Optimization:
Analyzing this data helps improve manufacturing processes, reduce defects, and increase yield.

Summary Table (Vacuum Chamber Context)
Column	What it tells about the vacuum chamber
UDI	Unique chamber/test record
Product ID	Chamber serial/batch
Type	Chamber model/size
Air temperature [K]	Ambient test/operation temperature
Process temperature [K]	Internal/bakeout temperature
Rotational speed [rpm]	Speed of moving parts (if any)
Torque [Nm]	Mechanical stress during assembly/testing
Tool wear [min]	Tool usage for assembly/testing
Target	Pass/fail result
Failure Type	Reason for failure (if any)
In summary:
Your dataset is a log of vacuum chamber manufacturing or testing cycles, tracking key parameters that affect chamber quality and reliability. This data helps ensure every vacuum chamber meets the demanding requirements for high or ultra-high vacuum applications in advanced industries